---
title: "DrAsync: Identifying and Visualizing Anti-Patterns in Asynchronous JavaScript"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-07-05-drasync
excerpt: 'This paper details eight anti-patterns that frequently occur in asynchronous JavaScript programs. A dynamic profiling and visualization tool augment the static detection of anti-patterns by visualizing promise lifetimes, helping programmers to see the impact of these anti-patterns.'
date: 2022-07-05
venue: 'ICSE'
paperurl: 'http://reallytg.github.io/files/papers/drasync.pdf'
citation: 'Alexi Turcotte, Michael D. Shah, Mark W. Aldrich, and Frank Tip. <i>DrAsync: Identifying and Visualizing Anti-Patterns in Asynchronous JavaScript</i>. In Proceedings of the 44th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 774–785.'
---

Promises and async/await have become popular mechanisms for implementing asynchronous computations in JavaScript, but despite their popularity, programmers have difficulty using them. This paper identifies 8 anti-patterns in promise-based JavaScript code that are prevalent across popular JavaScript repositories. We present a light-weight static analysis for automatically detecting these anti-patterns. This analysis is embedded in an interactive visualization tool that additionally relies on dynamic analysis to visualize promise lifetimes and instances of anti-patterns executed at run time. By enabling the user to navigate between promises in the visualization and the source code fragments that they originate from, problems and optimization opportunities can be identified.

We implement this approach in a tool called DrAsync, and found 2.6K static instances of anti-patterns in 20 popular JavaScript repositories. Upon examination of a subset of these, we found that the majority of problematic code reported by DrAsync could be eliminated through refactoring. Further investigation revealed that, in a few cases, the elimination of anti-patterns reduced the time needed to execute the refactored code fragments. Moreover, DrAsync's visualization of promise lifetimes and relationships provides additional insight into the execution behavior of asynchronous programs and helped identify further optimization opportunities.