---
title: "The Effecs of Computational Resources on Flaky Tests"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-12-01-raft
excerpt: 'Have you ever experienced odd program behaviour when running your program in resource-constrained environments? This paper explores this, identifying <i>resource-affected flaky tests</i> (RAFT).'
date: 2024-12-01
venue: 'TSE'
paperurl: 'http://reallytg.github.io/files/papers/raft.pdf'
citation: 'Denini Silva, Martin Gruber, Satyajit Gokhale, Ellen Arteca, Alexi Turcotte, Marcelo d’Amorim, Wing Lam, Stefan Winter, and Jonathan Bell. 2024. <i>The Effects of Computational Resources on Flaky Tests.</i> IEEE Trans. Softw. Eng. 50, 12 (Dec. 2024), 3104–3121. https://doi.org/10.1109/TSE.2024.3462251'
---

Flaky tests are tests that non-deterministically pass and fail in unchanged code. These tests can be detrimental to developers&#x2019; productivity. Particularly when tests run in continuous integration environments, the tests may be competing for access to limited computational resources (CPUs, memory etc.), and we hypothesize that resource (un)-availability may be a significant factor in the failure rate of flaky tests. We present the first assessment of the impact that computational resources have on flaky tests, including a total of 52 projects written in Java, JavaScript and Python, and 27 different resource configurations. Using a rigorous statistical methodology, we determine which tests are RAFTs (Resource-Affected Flaky Tests). We find that 46.5% of the flaky tests in our dataset are RAFTs, indicating that a substantial proportion of flaky-test failures happen depending on the resources available when running tests. We report RAFTs and configurations to avoid them to developers, and received interest to either fix the RAFTs or to improve the specifications of the projects so that tests would be run only in configurations that are unlikely to encounter RAFT failures. Although most test suites in our dataset are executed quite quickly (under one minute) in a baseline configuration, our results highlight the possibility of using this methodology to detect RAFT to reduce the cost of cloud infrastructure for reliably running larger test suites.