---
title: "D-BUNDLR: Destructing JavaScript Bundles for Effective Static Analysis"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2026-05-15-d-bundlr
excerpt: 'JavaScript bundlers take complex, multi-file JavaScript projects (including direct and transitive dependencies) and shove them into one-or-a-few files so that they are faster to load. We argue that this is a compilation process, and inspired by de-compilation, we propose a de-bundling technique to try to improve the results of static analysis on these bundles.'
date: 2026-05-15
venue: 'ICSE'
paperurl: 'http://reallytg.github.io/files/papers/debundling_icse.pdf'
citation: 'Wenyuan Xu, Alexi Turcotte, and Cristian-Alexandru Staicu. <i>D-BUNDLR: Destructing JavaScript Bundles for Effective Static Analysis.</i> In Proceedings of the 48th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA. More information to come.'
---

Static analysis for vulnerability detection in JavaScript is an exten-
sively studied research area. However, state-of-the-art approaches
ignore bundling, an emerging development practice, akin to com-
pilation, which allows developers to merge code from different
providers, while also applying optimizations to reduce code size.
A typical bundle heavily reuses single-letter identifiers and ex-
tensively relies on dynamic JavaScript features to emulate code
dependencies, thus, hindering static analysis.

In this work, we propose a reverse engineering approach that
relies on domain-specific code transformations to unpack bundles
and replace reidentified libraries with their source code. Our tech-
nique applies lightweight static analysis to dissect bundles into
individual components, machine learning to identify libraries, and
dynamic analysis to verify that libraries were correctly identified.
We implement this approach in a tool called D-Bundlr, and evalu-
ate it by comparing the output of CodeQL (a popular static analysis
tool) before and after debundling.

For a JavaScript code benchmark with known vulnerabilities,
our approach allows CodeQL to recover 89% of the vulnerabilities
and 83% of all alerts that were also detected in the source code, but
were dormant in bundles. Similarly, for real-world bundles where
we can retrieve the source code, D-Bundlr recovered 33% of the
original alerts. When applied to bundles extracted from the 100,000
most popular websites, D-Bundlr identifies 34,445 instances cor-
responding to 63 unique libraries, and causes CodeQL to produce
around 3.2K more security alerts than on packed bundles. We ad-
ditionally illustrate how attackers can exploit some of our zero-day
findings, causing unwanted security effects such as advertisement
space hijacking.